# Reflection

- Author: Richel
- Course: Intermediate Bianca
- Date: 2025-11-18

## 2025-11-18

I was rather unhappy with my session:
the setup of the session is misaligned.
The question is:

- How to use resources efficiently?

The next question is:

- How to best use resources: use 1 core
- When to use more cores:
  - If it is worth it, e.g. if runtime
    can be brought under 10 days
- How to go down in resource use using jobstats

I think the session should be restructured.

Also the exercise 2 will not work for others.

Start from where the learners are:
they have probably booked too many cores (if they
book multiple cores at all). If they can use less cores,
this is always more efficient, unless the 10 day limit barrier
is crossed.

## 2025-11-19

I've improved the session quite much. I think it now aligns better with
our learners.

- [ ] Check session 'Efficient use' again before teaching it

The evaluation had this feedback:

- Sometimes the instructions on the course page
  were a little hard to follow with a lot of pointing to other pages
  (understandable, to not have duplicate information)
  and similar information repeated (first as principles,
  then as step-by-step-instructions).
  But other than that it was a pedagogic and helpful course!

I wonder if this was me or another teacher...

My new material, however, does point to 1 less other page (i.e.
from 2 to 1), so I did improve on that already :-)

- It's a very good and detailed seminar and teachers are very nice
  and give many useful tips. Highly recommend !

Yay!

Done :-)

