---
tags:
  - reflection
  - Richel
  - 2025-05-23
  - Intermediate
---

# Reflection

- Author: Richel
- Course: Intermediate Bianca
- Date: 2025-05-23
- [Lesson plan](../../lesson_plans/20250523/20250523_richel.md)
- [Evaluation](../../evaluations/20250523/README.md)
- [Reflection](../../reflections/20250523/20250523_richel.md)

At the start we did a voting procedure,
as I described in the lesson plan.
I think this was clear and went well.

Topic         |Yes|No |Neutral
--------------|---|---|-------
GPU           |1  |2  |0
Transfer      |3  |0  |0
Efficient jobs|3  |0  |0
Installing    |3  |0  |0
IDEs          |2  |0  |1

We decided to keep the schedule and discussed the GPU.
A learner suggested to do other stuff wile listening in.
We followed that suggestion.

I felt better to remove the initial exercise.
BC reminded me to consider doing it, yet I felt it was better at that moment:
I felt it not important enough to delay the course even further.

We scheduled 35 minutes for GPU. The session took 17 minutes.
I suggested to schedule it at 20 minutes. JY wanted 5 more minutes
for questions, hence GPU will now be scheduled at 25 minutes.

- [ ] Schedule GPUs at 25 minutes

My session on 'efficient job' was very interactive.
I started with a Prior, then a Present, then a Challenge.
I used a 4 mins reading session in silence (I told
I would quiz them afterwards), in which
learners were encouraged to turn off their camera
and I promised them to leave them in peace.
The quizzing was useful: a lot of basic questions got
answered. Practicing the exercises (to interpret a
`jobstats` plot) together (i.e. each learner thinking
out loud while solving an exercise) felt
useful.

- [ ] Add a second reason why adding CPUs: to prevent
  a timeout
- [ ] Show Amdahl's Law in the last exercise

At the second exercise, I found a reason why they could
not do it (where it worked for me). We were quick
to conclude this and I quickly decided to have an earlier
break.

Installing from file:

```bash
wget https://github.com/ropensci/beautier/archive/refs/tags/v2.6.12.tar.gz
Rscript -e 'install.packages("beautier-2.6.12.tar.gz", repos = NULL, type="source")'
```

During the course, Bianca broke down. We decided to end earlier.
I think this was a good idea. After the evaluation however, there were
still 30 minutes spent with questions.

