# Meeting notes

## Meeting October 10 at 13:00

### Agenda

- Coming session:
    - No onboarding
- Evaluation of last sessions
- Schedules and teachers
- Possible updates/plans

### Evaluation of last sessions

- Past evaluation results

    - Bianca Basic: [Evaluation](../evaluations/20240925/README.md),
      [R's Reflection](../reflections/20240925/20240925_richel.md)
    - Intermediate Bianca: [Evaluation](../evaluations/20240524/README.md),
      [R's Reflection](../reflections/20240524/20240524_richel.md)
    - Suggestions from these:
        - Lowest confidences were in 'building from source' and 'container'.
      Do these sessions need more time?
        - Learners indicate that the Slurm part had too little time.
      Can we add time there?
    - If sessions need more time, what needs to be removed?
        - D: Slurm less talk, more exercise
        - [Move to future meeting] R suggests to move IDEs to Basic Bianca
        - R suggests to remove scheduled time for Q&A at the end
            - B+D+R: have a more interactive day helps reduce Q&A time

### Schedules and teachers

Changes, as discussed in t:

- Remove NAISS sens, 30 more minutes
- Reduce/remove Q&A, 10-15 more minutes


This is the living schedule

- Teachers + timings
    - intermediate
        - introduction to workshop
        - 9.10 Transferring files to and from Bianca (Richel -> Pavlin) 50+20

            - incl login??
            - rsync etc...

        - 10.35 Slurm jobs part 2 (Diana -> Richel) 25+45
        - Lunch
        - Software and packages installation on Bianca (Björn)

            - c. 50 (flex) +40
            - more time
            - include containers

        - ~14.40 IDEs on Bianca (new) 10+35 (flex) Richel + Björn C<---- 45 mins is new

            - (mention the desktop env: XFCE,gnome etc)

                1. rstudio (good practices with RStudio)
                2. jupyter (expand)
                3. vs code on bianca

            - Votes :+1:
(parallel)
                - **DRP focus on one** (learners vote, briefly on the other 2) <--- WINNER
        - 15:35 Summary 5
        - Evaluation 10 m
        - Q/A reduced 10

## Possible updates

- R has uploaded
  [the 2024-11-11 evaluation questions](../evaluations/20241111/README.md).
  This involved some guesswork from the course material.
  Go ahead and modify it if it is does not match your learning objectives
- B should we do the evaluation at the start too?
    - Vote:
        - [VOTED] Yes: BC +RB
        - Neutral: PM

### Todos

- Björn
    - Updates schedule in io
        - include prevaluation
    - Respond to <../evaluations/20241111>
    -
- Pavlin
    - Respond to <../evaluations/20241111>
- Richel:
    - include confidence questions in the introduction, 'pre-valuation', needs 10-15 mins in the schedule


## September planning

### When?

- DI:
    - I prefer week 46 (Nov 11-15),
    - but week 45 (Nov 4-8) would work too, if needed, Python4SciComp.
    - I can accommodate for some other dates if these weeks do not work.
    - I cannot week 48 (Nov 25-29), Git with HPC2N.

- BC:
    - Due to maintenance 6 Nov I suggest:
    - week 46, **11**-15, but Monday-Wednesday
    - because Programming Formalisms week after
    - no onboarding
- we DECIDED on 11 Nov

## Remove sens

- [DECIDED] Yes: RB, PM
- only if marcus cannot: BC


## Richel's Reflections

See [here](../reflections/20240524/20240524_richel.md).

