# Meeting notes

## Next meeting November 8 11.00

### Agenda

- Status
- Issues
- Misc
- Todos

### Status

- Registrations
    - 12
    - 2 persons do not have account (10 has)
    - 3 belong to the course project (7 can work on their own project)
    - [responses](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1BxBg7juTM-TEQzsZiNX4-AR62ntV-0Sm3Ba82ePSeTI/edit#responses)
- Material
    - BC not done yet
    - RB not done yet

### Issues

- Björn has activated md check for the intermediate+extra part --> Lots of errors :worried:
    - shall we remove or try to fix?
        - RB: ignore for now, teaching goes over markdown style :-)
- Schedule
    - are we happy?
        - all: yes
- Teach GPU?
    - RB: neutral, prefer to put in doc over teaching it explicitly
- Allocate GPU?
    - RB: neutral, prefer to put in doc over teaching it explicitly

### Misc

- teach R packages in Singularity instead of the earlier way to do it?
    - BC: no, but share links instead
    - PM: no, too hard to teach
    - RB: yes, using containers is a transferrable skill. The person teaching is boss!
- Use shared document?
    - BC: no
    - PM: no
    - RB: no, but teacher is boss

### ToDos

- BC
    - work Mon morning with last things
    - be sure that eval questions are OK
- PM
- RB
    - Create material

## Text to participants

Hi!

Welcome to the hackathon **Bianca In-Depth: Improve Your Handling of Sensitive Research Data**, to be held **November 11**.
The hackathon will consist of short lectures and the content will be driven by questions from the participants.

You may find the tentative schedule on the workshop webpage:
<https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax/study/courses-and-workshops/bianca-hackathon>

The hackathon will be held via Zoom: ZOOMLINK
Passcode to join the meeting:

For those of you that do not have a Bianca account:
You need to have an account on Bianca and 2FA enabled before the workshop starts. Please follow the instructions in the Google document a couple of days before the workshop starts:
`[link to doc]`.
Note: the account creation is automatic and it takes a couple of hours for changes to be propagated through the system after you asked for the account in SUPR (step 3).
Please make sure that you have accepted the NAISS user agreement.

If you encounter any issues in setting up your account, please contact UPPMAX support via <https://supr.naiss.se/support/> or email <support@uppmax.uu.se>. For general questions about the workshop, please email diana....

Best regards,
Diana
