# Bianca Intermediate - Planning Document

## Spring 2025

:calendar: Friday May 23, 2024 9.00-16.00

## Meeting notes 2025-04-17 9:00

- FYI: [Previous meeting's notes](https://github.com/UPPMAX/bianca_workshops/blob/main/docs/meeting_notes/20241108.md), [last evaluation results](https://uppmax.github.io/bianca_workshops/evaluations/20241111/) and [a reflection](https://uppmax.github.io/bianca_workshops/reflections/20241111/20241111_richel/)

### Agenda

- Status
- Evaluation (perhaps not that prepared)
- Discussion points
- Schedule and teacher
- ToDos

### Status

- Registered: 2
- Advertisement:
    - [ ] BC will advertise more
    - [ ] RB will contact NBIS for advertisement
    - In NAISS newsletter, homepage, also NBIS?
    - BC adds in UPPMAX news
- Course project:
    - `sens2025560`: open
        - Should we erase the old persons?
            - [DECIDED] Yes: RB, BC, JY, PM
                - [ ] BC will do :-)
            - No:

### Evaluation

- cover this or plan individually?
- [last evaluation results](https://uppmax.github.io/bianca_workshops/evaluations/20241111/)
    - BC :heart: this statistical work!
- [a reflection by Richel](https://uppmax.github.io/bianca_workshops/reflections/20241111/20241111_richel/)


### Discussion points

- [DECIDE LATER, based on schedule] Suggest to remove the optional Q&A from 15:45-16:00:
as the course is reasonably interactive, most
questions are answered during the course. If learners really have questions, they will asks these at 16:00
    - Yes: RB, JY
    - No: PM
    - Uncertain, because other questions may show up: BC
- Suggest move RStudio to Bianca Beginner course **next time**
    - [DECIDED] Yes: RB, BC, JY
    - Pass: PM
    - No:
- As none of the teachers used a shared document, I suggest to remove link to such a shared document from the course material
    - [DECIDED] Yes: RB, BC, PM, JY
    - No:
- Remove the learning outcome 'I can schedule a simple workflow of jobs that depend on each other using Nextflow', as we've not discussed this
    - [DECIDED] Yes: RB, BC, PM, JY
    - No:
- [DELAY, AFTER SCHEDULE] If both complex and replicate jobs are important, I suggest to add 30 mins to that session, over going parallel
    - Yes: RB
    - No:
- [DELAY, AFTER SCHEDULE] There was too little time for 'Efficient workflow',
needs 15 more minutes. Will we try to schedule as such?
    - Yes: RB, BC
    - No:
- [DELAY, AFTER SCHEDULE] File transfer can be shortened by 15 mins. Will we try to schedule as such (alternatively, some air in the schedule may be nice too)?
    - Yes: RB, BC
    - No:
- [NOPE] BC is fond of the 50+(15)+50+(15)+50=180 which will fit perfectly for 9:00-12:00 and 13:00-16:00. Sure, there will be a shift of the break start/end each hour (5 min later). Other reasons against, flexibility in lesson length as required.
    - do you agree? BC, RB,
    - no, then see below:
- Start at 9:15?
    - [DECIDED BY COIN TOSS] Yes: PM, JY
    - No: RB, BC
- LO: "I understand how to build from source"
    - may be considered advanced (remove?)
        - RB: I'd be up for removal, using my rule 'when in doubt, remove'. Let's prefer quality over quantity :-)
    - no time for exercise so make to extra?
    - [DECIDED] Will be removed

- [DELAY, AFTER SCHEDULE] Breaks are now 10 or 15 minutes. What about we keep them at the same length?
    - Yes, 15 minutes: RB
    - Yes, 10 minutes: RB
    - Yes, use the Björn approach: RB
    - No, be flexible, like 15m at typical coffee times and 10 m for leg stretch: BC (if not the one above), RB
- [DELAY, AFTER SCHEDULE] (only if break length is 15 mins) Installation part 1 can be from 13:00-13:45
(instead of to 13:50). Will we change this to have 15 minute for all breaks?
    - Yes: RB
    - No:

## Schedule, to be updated

- Add GPUs?
    - [DECIDED] Yes: RB, BC, JY, PM
    - No:
- Remove complex jobs:
    - [DECIDED] Yes: RB, PB, BC, JY
    - No:
- Remove replicate jobs:
    - [DECIDED] Yes: RB, PB, BC, JY
    - No:
- How to deal with the extra 15 mins?
    - Q&A at the end: RB, BC
    - [DECIDED BY COIN TOSS] Academic quarter at the start: JY, PM
    - Do something else:
- [DECIDED] 45 mins, 15 min break, etc.


When | Who  | Change? | What
-----|------|---------|---------------------
9:00 | R    | R is happy|Introduction](../intermediate/intro.md)
9:10 | R    | R is happy|[Prevaluation](../intermediate/prevaluation_intermediate.md) (will be merged with introduction)
9:20 | P    | |[Transferring files p1](../intermediate/transfer.md) (includes login) (40 of 70 mins)
10:00| .    | | Break
10:15| P    | Reduce by 15 mins if needed| [Transferring files p2](../intermediate/transfer.md) (30 of 70 mins)
10:45| R    | (see below)| [Efficient jobs](../intermediate/efficient_jobs.md) 1/2
11:00| .    | | Break
11:15| R    | R needs 15 mins extra | [Efficient jobs](../intermediate/efficient_jobs.md) 2/2
11:35| J    | (25  mins) | GPUs
11:20| R    | REMOVED, frees up 20 mins| [Complex jobs](../intermediate/complex_jobs.md) (i.e. Slurm job dependencies)
11:40| R    | REMOVED, frees up 20 mins| [Replicate jobs](../intermediate/replicate_jobs.md) (i.e. Slurm job arrays)
12:00| .    | | Lunch
13:00| B    |B gladly | Software and packages installation p1
13:50| .    | | Break
14:00| B    | B gladly| Software and packages installation p2
14:40| B?,R   |B can skip, R would be up to teach | IDEs on Bianca p1
14:50| .    | | Break
15:05| B?,R    |B can skip, R would be up to teach | IDEs on Bianca p2
15:40| R    |R is happy | [Summary](../intermediate/summary.md)
15:45| R    |R is happy | [Evaluation](../intermediate/evaluation_intermediate.md)
15:45| All  |Voted for keep/remove | Optional Q/A
16:00| .    | | END

- Who: `B`: Björn, `P`: Pavlin, `R`: Richèl


## ToDos

- BC can deal with learner info and course project
- [ ] RB makes new schedule and sends it
- [ ] BC will advertise more
- [ ] RB will contact NBIS for advertisement
- [ ] BC will remove old persons from `sens2025560`
