---
tags:
  - reflection
  - Richel
  - 2025-03-19
  - Intro
  - Beginner
---

# Reflection

- Author: Richel
- Course: Intro to Bianca
- Date: 2025-03-19

- Number of registrations: 24
- Number of learners: 12

## 14:30

I needed to prepare a lesson on NAISS sens, which I just did,
after teaching from 9:00-12:00.

The teaching session went well I think, with the biggest problem at the
start. This biggest problem was an unfortunate couple in the break-out rooms,
with 1 learner having no access to Bianca, and the other learner feeling
uncomfortable with computers. It was clear in the body language of the
second, that she was agitated. I ruthlessly re-coupled these learners
with two of my UPPMAX colleagues. After 10 minutes, it was very clear
that this was the right call, which again could be seen clearly in the
body language of the second learner. This problem turned into my
favorite moment of these sessions!

I've made the console login optional, as well as using the command-line:
there was no time for this. I've seen in my last reflection:

> - [ ] Discuss either moving SSH login to the Intermediate course,
>  or request 45 minutes more time

This has not happened. At least, I do not remember any meeting on the 
Bianca courses. I assume that, if they took place, they took place
before/after the UPPMAX weekly meeting.

One learner did not have a good Zoom setup.
This needed not be and definitely did not help her.

- [ ] Suggest to make 'A good Zoom setup' more prominent
  in the prerequisites

The prerequisites were in a long Word document. Some learners indicated
that this was a complex document. I agree. There were no screenshots
and no video.

- [ ] Suggest to replace the prerequisites document by a page on this
  course's website and simplify



